Getting Started: Understanding the Architecture
===============================================


Dinkly is a MVC (model-view-controller) framework that takes inspiration from Symfony's simpler (pre version 2) days. Before you dive in and start crafting your sweet new project, let's take a short tour of the architecture.

Files and Folders
-----------------

Let's start with the top-level files and folders included with Dinkly. When you install Dinkly, you should see the following list of of folders:

````
apps/
classes/
config/
tools/
vender/
web/
````

It's pretty easy to guess what each folder does, but let's break it down anyway. We'll revisit some of these in later sections with more detail.

  * `apps/` is where you will find the controllers for your project's applications. *In Dinkly, an 'app' or 'application' is defined as a self-contained body of code.*  

   For example, if your project has both a public-facing side and an administrative backend, you might decide to break these into two separate applications. In fact, Dinkly comes with an app called 'frontend' and 'admin' that follows this same line of thinking.  

   Apps consist of 'modules' that group views and controllers together.

  * `classes/` is where, you guessed it, is where you'll find all the classes needed for your project. This includes nearly all of the core code Dinkly needs to be awesome, as well as any custom classes you might need to add throughout development.

  * `config/` is an important folder, housing your project's database schemas, fixtures, and the all-mighty configuration file (config.yml). You'll also find a bootstrap file in there which is also essential for happy functioning of your project.

  * `tools/` is where various tools and code generators live, as well as our unit-tests.

  * `vender/` is where our third-party dependencies live.

  * `web/` is where all the web-accessible stuff goes. Images, CSS, javascript, all that good stuff.



Models, Views, and Controllers
------------------------------

We'll revisit each of these in their own sections later, but for now let's just take a quick peek at where you can expect to find them in Dinkly. 

  * __Models__ are typically defined in YAML schema files under `config/schemas/`. Once built, they can be found under the `classes/models/` directory. Here you will discover models are broken into two separate groups, 'base' and 'custom':  

     * *Base Models* are auto-generated by Dinkly and are almost never touched again (unless a schema is updated). They are designed to be extended by custom models.

     * *Custom Models* are also auto-generated by Dinkly, but can also be manually created. This is where all your custom model-specific code typically lives.

  * __Views__ are defined in module controller classes with a `load` function. View templates can be found under the `views/` folder and are loaded automatically based on naming conventions.

  * __Controllers__ can be found both at the application level, and at the module level. Behavior that will be applied across an entire application can be found in the primary application controller, while behavior that governs a single module can be found at the module level.